dependencies/ogl/README.md, before:

# Linux/Switch

## Installing GL3 dependencies 

The OpenGL3 backend is mainly used on Linux and Switch, but it does support Windows too.

For Windows, these need to be downloaded and extracted in their respective subdirectories 
- **GLEW:** Download from [SourceForge](http://glew.sourceforge.net/), extract it in `dependencies/ogl/glew`
- **GLFW:** Download from [the official site](https://www.glfw.org/download.html), extract it in `dependencies/ogl/glfw`  
  There are also 32-bit binaries available if you need them, but make sure the RSDKv5(U) is built for 32-bit too!

For Switch you'll need [devkitPro](https://devkitpro.org/) and GLAD, as GLEW and GLFW are not available. Install GLAD with `sudo dkp-pacman -S switch-glad`

For Linux you can install the dependencies using your distro package manager:
- **Arch Linux:** `sudo pacman -S base-devel glew glfw libtheora zlib sdl2`
- **Ubuntu (20.04+) or Debian (11+):** `sudo apt install build-essential libglew-dev libglfw3-dev libtheora-dev zlib1g-dev libsdl2-dev`
- **Fedora:** `sudo dnf install make gcc glew-devel glfw-devel libtheora-devel zlib-devel SDL2-devel`

## Compiling 

To compile you can just use `make`. To customize the build you can set the following options
- `PLATFORM=Switch`: Build for Nintendo Switch.
- `RSDK_REVISION=2`: Compile regular RSDKv5 instead of RSDKv5U.
- `RSDK_ONLY=1`: Only build the engine (no Game.so)
- `AUTOBUILD=1`: Disable the Plus DLC, which you should do if you plan on distributing the binary.

## Shaders 

Once completed, it is **heavily recommended** that you grab the Shaders folder in RSDKv5 and turn it into a mod. Otherwise, movies will not display properly and the filters from video settings won't work.

To do this, create the following directory structure inside your mods directory:
```
GLShaders/
| Data/
| | ...
| mod.ini
```

Inside `mods/GLShaders/Data/` copy the `RSDKv5/Shaders` directory, and inside the mod.ini, paste this:
```
Name=GLShaders
Description=GL3 shaders to enable filters and stuff
Author=Ducky
Version=1.0.0
TargetVersion=5
```

Commit message:

fix linux install instructions
inaccurate old instructions! took me a day to figure out what i was doing wrong, lol

dependencies/ogl/README.md, after:

# Linux/Switch

## Installing GL3 dependencies 

The OpenGL3 backend is mainly used on Linux and Switch, but it does support Windows too.

For Windows, these need to be downloaded and extracted in their respective subdirectories 
- **GLEW:** Download from [SourceForge](http://glew.sourceforge.net/), extract it in `dependencies/ogl/glew`
- **GLFW:** Download from [the official site](https://www.glfw.org/download.html), extract it in `dependencies/ogl/glfw`  
  There are also 32-bit binaries available if you need them, but make sure the RSDKv5(U) is built for 32-bit too!

For Switch you'll need [devkitPro](https://devkitpro.org/) and GLAD, as GLEW and GLFW are not available. Install GLAD with `sudo dkp-pacman -S switch-glad`

For Linux you can install the dependencies using your distro package manager:
- **pacman (Arch):** `sudo pacman -S base-devel glew glfw libtheora zlib sdl2 portaudio`
- **apt (Debian/Ubuntu):** `sudo apt install build-essential libglew-dev libglfw3-dev libtheora-dev zlib1g-dev libsdl2-dev portaudio19-dev`
- **rpm (Fedora):** `sudo dnf install make gcc glew-devel glfw-devel libtheora-devel zlib-devel SDL2-devel portaudio`

## Compiling

Compiling is as simple as typing the following:
```
cmake ./
make clean
make
```

To customize the build, you can set the following variables during the `make` step.
- `PLATFORM=Switch`: Build for Nintendo Switch.
- `RSDK_REVISION=2`: Compile regular RSDKv5 instead of RSDKv5U.
- `RSDK_ONLY=1`: Only build the engine (no Game.so)
- `AUTOBUILD=1`: Disable the Plus DLC, which you should do if you plan on distributing the binary.

For those building Sonic Mania, you will need to build `libGame.so` from [Sonic-Mania-Decompilation](https://github.com/Rubberduckycooly/Sonic-Mania-Decompilation), and your legally obtained `Data.rsdk`, and place them both within the same directory as your compiled binary. Follow the above compiling steps there as well.

## Shaders 

Once completed, it is **heavily recommended** that you grab the Shaders folder in RSDKv5 and turn it into a mod. Otherwise, movies will not display properly and the filters from video settings won't work.

To do this, create the following directory structure inside your mods directory:
```
GLShaders/
| Data/
| | ...
| mod.ini
```

Inside `mods/GLShaders/Data/` copy the `RSDKv5/Shaders` directory, and inside the mod.ini, paste this:
```
Name=GLShaders
Description=GL3 shaders to enable filters and stuff
Author=Ducky
Version=1.0.0
TargetVersion=5
```
